This game makes use of 4-sided, 6-sided, 8-sided, 10-sided, and 12-sided dice. In notation, these will be referenced in the normal 
XdY format, where X is the number of dice to be rolled, and Y is the number of sides those dice should have.

For instance, 1d4 refers to rolling one singular 4-sided dice, while 3d4 refers to rolling three 4-sided dice. 
5d12 would refer to five 12-sided dice, 4d8 is four 8-sided dice, 2d6 is two 6-sided dice, and so on. 



There a four general kinds of dice rolls used in this game to determine the outcome of uncertain events.

These rolls are Action Rolls, Struggle Rolls, Vehicle Rolls, and Saves.

Action Rolls are made by a character when they attempt to perform some feat, such as attacking, crafting, or coercing.
	Characters choose to perform these rolls actively, and typically must expend Action Points in order to do so. 

Struggle Rolls are a variation of an Action Roll that can be made by a character whenever they lack the Ability or Potential to 
	perform a particular action. These rolls have a low success rate and are typically made only in desperation and with an
	expectation of failure. 

Vehicle Rolls are similiar to Action Rolls, and involve one or more characters performing certain duties as part of a crew.
	These rolls modify the basic Action Roll rules, and are described in the in the Vehicle System Rules section.
	For now, it is enough to know that they are simply Action Rolls for vehicles, rather than lone individuals.

Saves are rolls a character might be forced to perform in order to determine if they succumb to some effect, or avoid some sort of
	failure. These rolls are typically not chosen by the character, and instead are the result of something happening to the 
	character.




This section will describe the mechanics of Action Rolls, Struggle Rolls, and Saves.
Vehicle Rolls are described in the Vehicle System Rules section.

(Note: some situation-specific unique rolls exist, most notably the Initiave Roll. Explanations for each of those specific rolls are 
contained within their corresponding section, being described in context to the rules governing that situation. 
This section is only concerned with the rules for the general rolls that occur commonly in a variety of different situations.)


\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\




Action Rolls

Overview
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A GM may call for a character to make a roll of this kind whenever a character takes a Roll Action.

--
A normal Action Roll should involve a character attempting to use some Ability they possess to perform some related action.
	For example, a character might use their Marksmanship Ability to attempt to shoot a target, or use their First-Aid Ability
	to provide initial treatment to a wound.

--
Characters can only perform one Action Roll at a time, and must resolve any current actions before attempting a new one.

--
For Action Rolls, a character's player, or the GM in the case of NPCs, rolls one or more dice and compares the result of each to
the target threshold for the roll. Normally, the GM determines the threshold for the roll, and should use higher values to reflect
more difficult situations. Sometimes the threshold for a roll is predetermined, most notably in the case of attacking actions, where
the threshold is determined by the target's Defense. Occasionally Abilities will provide rules that determine thresholds for specific
actions. To succeed, at least 1 dice rolled for the Action Roll must meet or exceed the target threshold.

--
Thresholds normally range from 2 to 12, representing the possible range of acheivable values. However, if the GM determines that
an action is so difficult that is either completely impossible or only possible under extraordinary circumstances, they may set 
a threshold higher than 12. 
The GM may tell players the threshold outright, or choose to withold the information. (Note: Player's normally should not be told a 
target's Defense unless their character learns or deduces that information.)

--
For normal Action Rolls, characters will roll between 1 to 5 dice, and the size of dice rolled can be d6, d8, d10, or d12.
The number of dice that can be rolled is determined by the character's Potential for the action, and the size of the dice
is determined by the character's Ability Level for the associated Ability.

Larger dice increase a characters chance of success as well as improving the quality of the roll's effect by increasing the 
maximum value that can be rolled. 

Rolling more dice can likewise significantly improve a characters odds of success and their total value, however rolling multiple 
dice also increases the characters odds of rolling a 1 and provoking an Opening or Mistake. 

--
Openings and Mistakes will occur anytime a character rolls a 1, even on successful acitons.

--
Characters do not have to roll their maximum Potential for every roll, and can instead choose any number of dice up to their 
Potential. 




Success and Extra Successes
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
If one or more of the dice rolled give a value equal to or higher than the threshold, then the character performs the action
sucessfully. 
Only one successful dice is required to perform an action. If multiple dice succeed, the one with the highest value among them is 
used to perform the action. All successful dice after the primary one are called Extra Successes.


--
Extra Successes can be used to increase the potency of the action, and sometimes can be used for additional effects. 
For instance, Damage done by attacks is equal to the value of the successful die, and the value of the Extra Successes can 
be added to the initial value.

Abilities may grant unique uses of Extra Successes for related actions, and will describe their uses and limitations.

If the GM determines it to be appropriate, Extra Successes can be used in ways not explicitly described, so long as it does not
conflict with or bypass the game's intended limitations. Use this as a tool to enhance roleplaying by thinking of dynamic and 
interesting functions that reflect the details of the situation. As a guideline, no dice should perform more than one function, each 
function should have roughly equivalent value, and the amount of different functions performed in one action should be limited to
a reasonable degree.
If considering a new way of using an Extra Success, familiarize yourself with the existing ways of doing so already described by
different Abilities to ensure there isn't a distinct overlap and to provide a reference for balancing the effect. 
Creating precedents that accidently overlap with existing material may affect character progression, potentially empowering 
characters too soon or turning diverse Abilities into redundant ones can make earning Experience Points unrewarding.





Unsuccessful
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
If none of the dice rolled for the action meet or exceed the threshold, then the GM determines if the character either fails to 
perform the action, or performs it in an unsuccessful way.






Openings and Mistakes
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
If one or more dice rolled as part of an Action Roll land on a 1, then the character experiences one or more Mistakes or Openings.
Mistakes and Openings represent some significant oversight, miscalculation, carelessness, or other error from the character.
Mistakes and Openings can occur during successful and unsuccessful actions. 




--
Openings occur whenever the character rolls a 1 for an action that is actively contested by at least one other character, such as in
combat or during a competition. Openings provide an opportunity for other character's to act in response to the initial action. 
Whenever Openings occur, the GM decides which character or characters get to act, but should prioritize the most relevant characters.
The chosen characters are given the option to expend Action Points up to the number of rolled 1s in order to perform their own
actions, which may involve their own Action Roll.

In terms of game mechanics and the order of operations when playing the game, actions that occur during an Opening resolve before
the Action Roll that triggred them fully resolves, however in the world these actions resolve at approximately the same time.
This way, certain skillful uses of Openings can have an effect on the outcome of the triggering Action Roll when used reasonably, 
while preventing unreasonable loopholes that allow for the easy negation of an action.
As a rule of thumb, Openings cannot nullify the conditions that allowed the initial action to be attempted, but can affect the
attempt itself.  

For instance, if a character makes a successful roll for an attack against another character, but creates an opening and the
attacked character successfully uses a guard or parry action to increase their Defense, the original attack may not have a high 
enough roll to meet the target's new, elevated Defense. In this case, the original attack would then become unsuccessful.
However, simply using a Move action during an Opening might leave one in a favorable position, but will not negate a successful
attack by moving out of range. In this case, the successful attack would still land and deal damage because the Move action itself
does not mechanically affect the successful roll. The character would still Move away as part of the Opening, but would be struck
by the attack as they did so.

Actions taken during Openings can themselves provoke Openings, but can only be taken advantage of by a third party, as the 
primary and secondary actions are still in the process of resolving.




--
Mistakes occur whenever a character rolls a 1 for an action when alone, if an Opening is unreasonable, or if no characters are able
to act on an Opening. 
Mistakes take the form of direct errors on the part of the acting character. These occur most often when the character is 
obtaining information in some way, or when performing some isolated, uncontested action, such as attempting to coerce an individual
or crafting an item.
The GM determines the exact nature of any Mistakes, and should try to use them in a way that creates interesting complications
for the character. 
For instance, a Mistake might result in a character obtaining misleading or incorrect information, potentially in addition to 
correct information if the roll was a success. A character who makes Mistakes while attempting to sway a crowd may find a portion
of the crowd abandoning them or outright becoming hostile, even if another portion is in agreement with the character.
An artisan who makes too many Mistakes while crafting an object might find the quality of the object diminished and not 
up to their own expected standards. 






Ability Level and Potential
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The size and number of dice used for an Action Roll are determined by two aspects of a character: Ability Level and Potential.
	
	
--
Ability Level describes how proficient a character is with a particular Ability and determines the size of the dice a character may 
use for actions related to the Ability. There a four Ability Levels to describe a character's skill.

Each of the four levels have a name and corresponding dice size:
	1. Novice 	- d6
	2. Journeyman 	- d8
	3. Master	- d10
	4. Legend	- d12

If a character does not know a particular Ability, they are said to be Unskilled in that Ability.
Characters that are Unkilled in an Ability cannot perform the Action Rolls associated with that Ability.



--
Potential describes the character's upper limit of capability for a particular action, and determines the number of dice a character 
may use for the action. Potential is represented as value between 1 and 5. When deciding to perform an action, the character may 
choose to use a number of dice up to their Potential for the roll. So, if a character's Potential for a roll is 3, they may use 
1, 2, or 3 dice to determine the outcome of the action.

A character's Potential for a roll is determined by the value of one or more of the character's Attributes.

The Attribute or Attributes called for should reflect what qualities of the character the rolls relies upon.
For instance, coercing an individual through persuasiveness should call for a character's Charm, in order to reflect
the charismatic nature of the interaction. Likewise, lifting a heavy object would rely upons a character's Power, since it 
represents their raw physical strength. 

The more complex or detailed an action is, the more likely it should be to call for two Attributes rather than one.
This reflects the need for the character to rely on a combination of their qualities in order to do their best.
For instance, this is why regular attacks with the Melee Weapons Ability require Finesse + Power in order to reflect the need for both
strength and precision when making attacks of that nature. 

--	
Abilities typically describe what Attribute or Attributes are required for a related action, and may vary slightly in different 
context. For instance, the Marksmanship Ability calls for Finesse and Acuity when shooting small arms, but requires Actuiy and Charm 
when directing fire from a crewed weapon instead. 

Since Abilities can be open-ended or even player-created, generic applications of an Ability might be undefined.

In these cases, the GM should assess what Attribute or Attributes make the most sense in context. The GM may take player input into
consideration, but will always retain the final decision.
 
For instance, if a player employs an Acrobatic Ability to attempt to jump a gap the GM might decide to simply call for the 
character's Speed in one instance, and then later decide to call for Speed and Finesse for a similiar jump to reflect
the necessity of the character to land in a particular way or at a particular spot in order to avoid some hazard, such as
a crumbling cliff or patch of ice.

--
If only one Attribute is called for, then the character's Potential for that roll is equal to their value for that Attribute.
	I.e. Potential = Attribute
	
If two Attribute are called for, the the character's Potential for that roll is equal to half of the sum of their values for those 
Attributes, rounded down.
	I.e. Potential = ( Attribute "A" + Attribute "B" ) / 2 , rounded down. 

--
Normally, character's have a value of at least 1 for every Attribute, and therefor always have at least 1 Potential for any action. 
However, a character's Attributes or Potential might be lowered as the effect of some Status, such as having an Injury or being 
Panicked. In these cases it is possible for a character's Potential for a roll to be lowered below 1, and whenever this occurs that 
character becomes unable to perform the regular Action Roll.


Ability Level and Potential in Roleplay
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A character's Ability Level should reflect their overall understanding and proficiency in that field.
The ranks of Novice, Journeyman, Master, and Legend can correspond to how others recognize their prowess in that field.
Novices display rudimentary technique and understanding, while Legends perform rare and awe-inspiring feats.

The amount of dice used can represent the amount of effort and focus the character is putting into the action, especially in 
comparison to their maximum Potential for roll.

Using all of character's Potential for a roll represents that character putting the maximum possible effort they can into that
action, however much that might be. Characters doing this might be described as exerting themselves, focusing intensely, and 
giving it their all. Of course, this also increases the odds that a character has an Opening or Mistake occur, as the more a 
character strives towards a singular purpose, the more likely they are to to overextend, leaving themselves open or attempting 
more than they could handle. 

A character using less than their maximum Potential might be holding back, acting casually, or even cautiously, being careful and
methodical so they do not to leave themself exposed and vulnerable. 

If a character has only 1 or 2 Potential for a roll, they might seem untalented or not confident anytime they attempt
that action, even when they succeed. Their need for mindfulness while using their limited capacity might reflect on their inherently
lower Mistake chance, as they lack the brashness of more talented individuals. 

If a character has high Ability Level but low Potential for a roll they might display a great understanding or technical ability 
for the action while their Potential reveals their natural limitations that bound that understanding.
The opposite may be seen as well, with a character that has high Potential but low Ability level for an action instead displaying
their natural Potential in a literal sense, even if their knowledge is more obviously limited. 

When choosing how many dice to roll try to consider how the character would behave in that situation, and try to create a dynamic
relationship exist between the two. Roleplaying goals can guide dice selection, and dice selection can guide roleplaying.


Order of Operations
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
When a character attempts an Action Roll, the following steps occur:

1. The Player or GM explains what the character is attempting to do, and what Ability they are using.

2. The character's Ability Level and Potential are checked, and the number of dice that will actually be rolled is annouced.
	Note: once whoever is in control of a character decides how many dice they will roll for the action, they MUST roll that many
		dice, even if the first dice rolled succeeds. If rolling one dice at a time, roll each one and note the value before
		moving on.

3. The dice are rolled, and are first examined for any 1's. If any 1's are rolled, the GM determines if there are Mistakes or
	Openings.

4. If there are any Openings, those are performed and resolved first before moving on.

5. The dice are examined to see if any rolled high enough to succeed, and Extra Successes are counted as well.
	Note: if any Openings occurred, the results of those actions should be considered when determining success of the primary
		action.

6. If there are any Extra Successes, then whoever is in control of the character decides how they are spent.

7. If there are any Mistakes, then the GM decides how they will affect the outcome.
	Note: some Abilties allow characters to nullify Mistakes by expending Extra Successes, so this step should always come after
		step 6.
 
8. The effects of the success, Extra Successes, and Mistakes all resolve, and the Player or GM describe the events that unfold. 

	 


\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\


Struggle Rolls

Overview
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Struggle Rolls are essentially a variation of a normal Action Roll can be taken under certain conditions.

Whenever a character would attempt an Action Roll, but they do not know an associated Ability (i.e. they have no Ability Level for
that Ability) or their Potential for the roll is less than 1, they may attempt the action as a Struggle Roll instead. 

To do so, the character spends the normal amount of Action Points for that action, and the GM sets the threshold for the action as 
though it were a normal Action Roll. The GM should treat the theshold difficulty as the normally would, and should never tell a 
player if a Struggle Roll will automatically fail. 

The character may then roll 1d4 to attempt the action, following the normal rules and order of operations for Action Rolls. 
These rolls can provoke Openings and Mistakes. 
Whoever is controlling the character should always describe what the character is doing as they make the roll.

Characters may never roll more than 1d4 for a Struggle Roll.


Mechanical Importance
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Struggle Rolls are intended to provide desperate attempts at actions that a character is inhibited from performing normally, due to 
either a lack of knowledge or skill, or due to an impairment.

These rolls do not automatically succeed upon a rolled 4, and instead must meet or exceed the threshold of the roll as though it were
a normal roll. Thus, these rolls should expect a high rate of failure, and often are impossible, even though the player or character 
can not be made explicitly aware of this beforehand. 


Struggle Rolls in Roleplay 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
While roleplaying these rolls, consider why the character is making a Struggle Roll for this action instead of an Action Roll.

If it because the character is attempting something they have no Ability for, they might be portrayed as trying to puzzle out the 
correct method, bumbling through the attempt, or otherwise behaving in a way that reflects their lack of knowledge. A character
with no Marksmanship Ability could have difficulty getting a sight picture, or a character that lacks the Engineering Ability might
make random inputs on an m-fab while trying to get it to run a preset program.

If it due to the character's Potential being reduced, the character is likely currently suffering from some mental or physical 
impairment, such as from an Injury. The nature of the impairment could be factored into the description of what they are doing.
Perhaps they are blinded and struggling to press a certain button, or one of their feet has been crushed and now they find themselves
needing to clear a small gap over a large drop while unassisted. Scenarios such as these naturally impart the desperate nature of 
the Struggle Roll. 


\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\


Saves

Overview
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A Save is a roll a character can be forced to perform in order to see if they resist the effects of some action or Status. 

An effect or Status will describe if it will force a character to make a Save, and will also describe the nature of that Save. 
The GM may also call for a Save of their own design if they deem it appropriate for the situation at hand.

All saves involve the affected character rolling one or more d6 dice, and then comparing the result to the specified Attribute. 
If any of the values rolled are higher than the character's associated Attribute, then the character fails the Save and suffers the 
described consequences.

If a character succeeds on a Save, they resist, ignore, or are otherwise immune to the described consequences at that time.


Examples
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Death Save: Characters affected by the Dieing Status must roll 1d6 at the end of each of their turns. If the result is higher than 
their Heartiness, they permanantly die.

Injury Save: Whenever a Character affected by the Wounded Status takes Damage they must roll 1d6. If the result is higher than their
Heartiness, they receive an Injury.

Panic Save: Characters affected by the Panicked Status must roll 2d6 at the start of each of their turns.
	If the result of both dice is higher than the character's Tenacity, they suffer a -3 Action Point penalty for the turn.

	If the result of only one dice is higher than the character's Tenacity, they suffer a -1 Action Point penalty for the turn.


Saves in Roleplay
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Saves provide a unique opportunity in roleplay where the GM or Players maybe required to describe why or how a character either
does or does not succumb to some effect.

Consider how the character would be reacting to what has happened to them, and what they might do or not do that could explain why 
outcome was what it was.

All aspects of the character can be used to inform these descriptions, including not only mechanical aspects such as the character's
Abilities or Attributes, but also roleplaying aspects such as their personality, disposition, and goals.

For instance, a character with a high Attribute might be described as succeeding the save in a graceful or easy way, or failing
in an unlikely and heartbreaking way. Low Attribute characters might succeed through dumb luck, or fail due to being overwhelmed
and completely unable to resist. 

Since Abilities reflect the actual knowledge and skills a character possesses, these too might inform the description of how they 
act in the moment. An acrobat might succeed an Agility-based Save through some practiced maneuver, meditative characters may attempt
known mantras when making a Tenacity-based save.

The character's more abstract qualities can be even more informative. Perhaps the desire to see a loved one is what compelled a 
fighter when he resists several Death Saves in a row. Maybe a swordsman losing one eye due to an Injury Save is met with callous 
disregard, while losing a hand sees the swordsman far more distressed. Knowledgeable characters might be upset if they fail a 
Memory-based Save, while more here-and-now type personalities are unbothered.


\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\