This document gives an overview of the normal flow of the game, including an explanation of open roleplaying, turn-based gameplay,
and actions.

\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\



Out of Combat

Overview
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Whenever no Players are in combat, strict turn order is not required. Instead, the game normally makes use of generic "open roleplay". 

The GM is free to control the game as they desire, deciding what is happening in world and what the consequences of the various
character's behaviours will be. If you are new to roleplaying or tabletop games in general, you can skip the following and instead
go down to the "Roleplaying Introduction" section below for a primer on roleplaying in a tabletop game. 

If you are familiar with tabletop roleplaying games then the general concept of open roleplay is likely already familiar, and so this
game will likely seem intuitive, and should mirror the normal roleplaying experience you are used to. You can expect to act through
your character, question the GM, and make dice rolls when the GM demands it. 

However, this game is meant to allow the GM a lot of freedom to run the roleplaying, and the game in general, however they desire, 
be it with or without turns, whether or not to allow one individual to "face" and lead social interactions on behalf of the party,
whether the party may split, etc. It is the GM's table, and their rules are paramount. So as always, make sure there is clear 
communication between the GM and the Players regarding what the expectations at the table will be, and if there are any special 
considerations. As with all social games, most conflict is rooted in unfulfilled expectations and miscommunication. 



Roleplaying Introduction (For Beginners)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TODO - Give a introductory description of open roleplaying in a ttrpg.
shit, why did i think this was a good idea.



\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\



Turn-Based Gameplay

Overview
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This game uses individual turns for each player and the GM whenever one or more Players are in combat, non-hostile conflicts, or 
whenever else the GM desires. If the GM controls multiple characters at once, especially during combat, they may have multiple 
turns in between the Players' turns depending on the scenario. 

During a character's turn, whoever controls that character can engage directly in roleplay, choose what the character will do, ask
questions to the GM, and are the only ones allowed to do so, with some exceptions. Each character active in the scenenario will
typically have a turn, with the set of all turns being referred to as a "round". A round can be said to last from the start of the 
turn of the first character to act until the the start of that same character's next turn.

Some situations allow a character to act when it is not their turn, typically as part of Openings provoked on other character's turns. 
A character acting outside of their turn should not be considered as having gained another turn, and should not affect any abilities 
or effects that are dependent on that character's turn starting or ending. 


Turn-Order and Initiative
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Initiative Roll
--
Whenever the game must transition from open roleplay to turn-based gameplay an Initiative Roll can be used to determine turn order.

If the GM calls for Iniative Rolls, such as at the start of combat or other turn-based scenarios, each character rolls 
1d4 and adds the sum of their Tenacity and Speed Attributes. 
(Initiative = 1d4 + Tenacity + Speed)

The value of each character's result is compared, and the character with the highest value goes first. Subsequent turns follow in
order of descreasing value from highest to lowest.
If any characters roll the same value, the character with the highest Tenacity goes before the others unless their Tenacity 
Attributes are equivalent, in which case the character with the highest Speed goes first. If any characters get the same result and 
share the same Tenacity and Speed values, then the GM determines who acts first.



Ambush and Surprise
--
Normally, when all or most of the involved characters are aware of one another and/or expecting conflict, all characters will
make an Initiave Roll. However, if one or more characters ambush or surprise their opponents with an unexpected action, then the
character or characters doing so go first in the turn order, with their beginning actions being considered their turn for that round.
(Note: if multiple characters encounter one another unexpectedly and immediately come into conflict, they will all make Initiative
Rolls in the normal way.)

When a conflict starts in this way, turn-order for the offensive characters is determined simply by the order in which they performed 
their starting actions. A well-planned ambush can leave the offensive characters with a distinct turn-order advantage, while a 
surprise attack made in haste or carelessness might yield significantly less benefit.

Characters typically can only start a conflict together in this way whenever they coordinate and prepare beforehand, this might
involve laying in wait, using a "go phrase" or signal of some kind, or waiting until a particular event occurs to que everyone to 
act at once. Other methods might be use, but must follow a clear and consistent reasoning that all involved characters are aware of
ahead of time. 

If one character simply surprises another spontaneously, the initiating character's allies can not participate if they did not 
reasonably anticipate the act and prepare a response ahead of time. In this case, those allies may only act in the way they 
determined ahead of time, and cannot modify those decisions. If a Player believes their character should act in this way, then they 
should describe the character's intentions to the GM before the other character acts. 

After the initiating character or characters perform their actions all other characters involved, friend and foe, make Initiative 
Rolls in the normal way, and the first among them begins their turn immediately.



\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\



Gameplay Actions
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Whenever a character wants to perform a specific act in the game, such as moving, attacking, or using an Ability, they must expend
a corresponding amount of Action Points and whoever controls the character can provide a description or roleplay the character's 
behaviour. 
There are two primary kinds of actions a character can make: Basic Actions and Roll Actions, both of which require the character
to expend Action Points. 


Action Points
--
In order to perform Basic Actions or Roll Actions a character must expend a one or more Action Points as noted in the action's 
description. 
The number of total Action Points a character can have is equal to 1 plus the character's Speed Attribute ( 1 + Speed ), with the
maximum possible being six (6) Action Points. 
All of character's Action Points are restored at the start of their turn.  

Basic Actions
--
There are some generic actions that all characters have access to. These do not require Action Rolls, and instead only demand that
the character the expend the required amount of Action Points.

The following is the list of the Basic Actions:

	Move - The character spends 1 AP to move a distance up to their Movement Value. A character can only Move or Sprint once per 
		turn or opening. (Note: a character can use Move or Sprint during their turn AND use Move or Sprint during any 
		opening they exploit on the same round.)


	Sprint - The character spends 2 AP to move a distance up to twice their Movement Value. Cannot be used while affected by the 
		Burdened Status. A character can only Move or Sprint once per turn or opening. (Note: a character can use Move or 
		Sprint during their turn AND use Move or Sprint during any opening they exploit on the same round.)

	(Note: both Move and Sprint essentially "give" the character the specified amount of movement for the turn or opening, and
		do not restrict the character to one instance of motion. In other words, a character can use part a their Movement 
		Value, perform some other actions, and then use the rest of their leftover Movement Value, as long as it is done on
		the same turn or opening. Movement value is not retained between any turns or openings, and is instead lost at the 
		end of the turn or opening that Move/Sprint was activated on.)   



				\\\\\\\\\
TODO: This shit is aweful, fix it by breaking up and creating list of limited scope actions? fix by rewording? IDK 


	Use/Ready - The character spends 1 AP to either pick up one or more nearby objects or withdraw objects from their
		inventory, they may then use this object in a unskilled way, stow it into their inventory, drop it, or simply hold it. 
				
		If the character is already holding something with the hand they intend to use for this action, then they may drop 
		whatever they are holding or stow that object into their inventory as part of this action. 
		If the character requires more than one hand to complete this action, they may empty their other hand in a similar
		way. The number and size of objects that can be targeted with this action are limited to what they can reasonably 
		hold in their hands.

		If the character is already holding the object they intend to use with this action, then they can instead utilize the
		object , then either drop that object or stow it into their inventory, and finally retrieve either a different 
		nearby object, or withdraw one from their inventory.
		
		For example, a character holding weapons in both hands might use this action to sheathe one weapon, produce a key, 
		and then unlock a lock with that key. 
		(Note: stowing the key and drawing their weapon would require another action from this character.)
	
		In the second case: a character holding firewood in both hands might use this action to stack the wood nearby, and 
		then draw their axe afterwards.
	
	Interact/Manipulate - The character spends 1 AP to interact with or manipulate something nearby. This should be limited to
		unskilled actions only, such as opening a door, manipulating a switch, or interfacing with a device in a basic way.
		
		If the character is already holding something with the hand they intend to use for this action, then they may drop 
		whatever they are holding or stow that object into their inventory as part of this action. 
		If the character requires more than one hand to complete this action, they may empty their other hand in a similar
		way.
		If the character stowed one or more objects into their inventory to perform this action, they may retrieve those 
		objects as part of this action once they are finished interacting with the target.
		
		For example, a character holding weapons in both hands might use this action to sheathe both weapons, interact with 
		a digital interface to open a doorway, and then draw their weapons again.  
		

Roll Actions
--
Unlike Basic Actions, the outcome of this kind of action is not guaranteed. Instead, they rely upon the Ability and Potential of the 
character attempting them, and are mostly unachievable by those who are lacking in either.

The GM may call for a roll whenever they decide that the action a character is attempting is difficult enough that the outcome should
be determined by the character's relevant capabilities.

If the character has a relevant Ability to the action, or is using a specific Technique granted by an Ability, then they make an
Action Roll to determine the outcome of the action. 

If the character lacks the Ability Level or Potential to perform the specific Action Roll, a Struggle Roll can be made instead.

The Action Point cost for a Roll Action is dependent on the action and its relevant Ability.
Typically this information is found in the Ability's description, or its Ability Tags. 
(Note: Action Point cost does not vary between the Action Roll and Struggle Roll for a specific action.)








\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\


Turn Passing, Openings, and Turn-Only Actions
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Characters are not required to act or expend any or all Action Points during their turn. They are also not limited to acting only 
during their turn, if certain conditions are met.

A character who does not wish to act on their turn may pass, at which point the next character in the turn order begins their turn.
A character may pass their turn even after completing an action. Since a character's AP does not reset until the start of their next
turn, a character might pass their turn if they wish to retain AP in order to exploit Openings.

Openings are situations that can occur whenever a character makes a Roll Action. If a character rolls any "1's" on their dice when 
determining the outcome of a Roll Action, then an Opponent may expend a number of Action Points up to the number of rolled "1's" to 
perform an action at the same time. This allows characters to occassionally act when it is not their turn, so long as they have 
available Action Points.
Openings themselves are described in greater detail in the "Opening and Mistakes" rule section.

While most actions can be performed during an Opening, some actions are restricted to only being performed during a character's turn.
Abilities with actions or Techniques limited in this way are marked with the "Turn-Only" Tag. An Ability's decription should describe
what actions are restricted to the character's turn.

