

Attributes are the primary stats of the system.



They are represented as integer values from 1 to 5, with 1 being the minimum a character may have, representing a "below average"
	human ability, and 5 five being the maximum they might have, representing a "near super-human" ability.



Derived stats such as a character's Health, Defense, Action Points, and Carry Weight are derived from Attributes.



Primarily, Attributes determine the character's Potential, or the available number of dice, for an associated roll.
	Some simple actions, such as moving a heavy object or recalling a piece of information, may rely on one Attribute alone,
		In these cases, Potential is equal to the associated Attribute. 
			E.g. Move Object (Power) or Recall (Memory), Potential = Power or Memory.
	More skilled or complex actions, such as attacking or operating a device or machine, may rely on a combination of two 
		different Attributes.
		In these cases, Potential equals half the sum of the two Attributes, rounded down.
			E.g. Markmanship (Finesse + Acuity) or Engineering (Acuity + Memory), 
				Potential = (Finesse + Acuity) / 2 or (Acuity + Memory) / 2. 
	
	This means that more complicated and difficult actions will require characters to develop their capability in multiple fields.
	Likewise simpler actions are less demanding on a character's capability, and thus be performed more consistently at first. 




All characters start with a "1" in each Attribute, with the character's class providing a starting a bonus of +1 or +2 to different
	Attributes related to the class's archetype. 



Character's can raise their Attributes via Experience Points earned through significant accomplishments. 
Attributes take significantly more Experience Points as their value increases.


\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\



The following is the list of Attributes, and their general description:

	Heartiness: Represents a character's physical endurance, directly deriving Health and contributing to Defense.
		Hearty characters are harder to hurt, and can absorb more damage than the average person.
	
	Tenacity: Represents a characer's mental resilience, and their ability to stay calm and handle Stress. Derives Control stat.
		Tenacious characters can endure stressful situations longer, and maintain self-control better than the average person.

	Speed: Represents a character's alacrity, deriving Actions Points and the character's Movement Value. 
		Speedy characters cover ground more quickly, and act more often than the average person.

	Finesse: Represents a character's physical precision and deftness, and contributes to Defense alongside Heartiness.
		Fine characters can aim better, act more subtly, and avoid attacks easier than the average person.

	Acuity: Represents a character's ability to perceive, understand, and conceptualize accurately, as well as one's skillfullness.
		Acute characters notice things others don't, are more analytical, and are more technically capable than the average person.
	injury
	Power: Represents a character's physical strength, contributing to one's melee damage and directly deriving Carry Weight.
		Powerful characters can hit harder and bear more weight than the average person.

	Charm: Represents a character's charisma, their ability to appeal to others in various aways, and get the best from cooperation.
		Charming characters are better at intimidating, persuading, or convincing others, and are better leaders than the average person.

	Memory: Represents a character's depth of knowledge and ability to recall experiences or information accurately, especially under stress.
		Rentitive characters are do the best technical work, and are normally regarded as more intelligent than the average person.







\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\



The following is a list of the stats derived from Attributes, and any counterparts to those stats.


	Health: Equal to ten times the character's Heartiness. 
		Represents a character's ability to withstand physical Damage.


	Damage: Counterpart to Health.
		
		Whenever a character is physically harmed Damage increases.
			Wounded: Applied when Damage increases and the result is equal to or higher than the character's Health.
				Wounded characters have a -1 Potential on all actions.
				Wounded characters must roll 1d6 whenever their Damage increases,
					 if the result is higher than their Heartiness they receive an Injury.
						This roll is called the Injury Save.
						Injuries are explained in more detail in the Statuses section. 
				The Wounded status is removed automatically if Damage is 
					lowered to a value less than the character's Health.

			Dieing: Applied when Damage increases and the result is equal to or higher than twice the character's Health.
				Dieing characters become permanantly dead if their Damage increases.
				Dieing characters must roll 1d6 at the end of each of their turns, 
					if the result is higher than their Heartiness, they permanently die.
					This roll is called the Death Save.
				The Dieing status is removed automatically if Damage is 
					lowered to a value less than twice the character's Health.
				
		Character's can instantly receive an Injury or die if a single attack increases Damage by a significant amount.
			
			If a single attack increases Damage by a value equal to or greater than half of a character's Health, 
				they receive an Injury and they do not make an Injury Save.
				
			If a single attack increases Damage by value equal to or greater than a character's Health,
				 that character instantly and permanantly dies and they do not make a Death Save.	
	
		(Note: Dieing, Wounded, and Injured characters have opportunities for survival, mitigation, and remediation,
			however, truly dead characters are forever lost.)

		Damage must be lowered by medical treatment and recovery time, typically from resting.
	
		Some abilities do exist for lowering Damage during combat as well as removing, ignoring, or preventing 
			its associated statuses or their effects.	    
	

	Control: Equal to ten times the character's Tenacity.
		Represents a character's ability to withstand mental Stress.


	Stress: Counterpart to Control.
		
		Character's Stress can increase as a result of various situations and effects.

		Several sources of Stress exist, here are a few of the most common:
			
			Whenever a character's Damage increases, their Stress increases by half of the same value, rounded up.
				Note: The Lancer Class is immune to this source of Stress.
		
			Whenever a character receives an Injury, their Stress increases by an amount equal to half of their Control.
  
			Wounded characters take 1d4 Stress at the end of each of their turns.
			
			If a character makes a Death Save and doesn't die, their Stress increases by the amount rolled on 
				the Death Save instead.

			The Expert Class must roll 1d6 at the end of each of their turns in Personal Combat (non-vehicle combat).
				If the result is higher than their Tenacity, their Stress increases by 1.
		
		These Statuses can occur as Stress increases:
			
			Shaken: Applied when Stress increases and the result is equal to or higher than the character's Control.
				Shaken characters have a -1 Potential on all actions.

			Panicked: Applied when Stress increases and the result is equal to or higher than twice the character's Control.
				Panicked characters must roll 2d6 at the start of each of their turns,
					if both dice land on a value higher than the character's Tenacity,
						they suffer a -3 Action Point penalty for the turn.
					If only one dice lands on a value higher than the character's Tenacity, 
						they suffer a -1 Action Point penalty for the turn instead.
					If no dice land on a value higher than the character's Tenacity, 
						they suffer no Action Point penalty for the turn.

			Unconcious: Applied when Stress increases and the result is equal to or higher than three times the character's Control.
				Unconcious characters cannot act or move, and their Defense becomes 1.
				Unconcious characrers can be awoken by an allies Medicine (Acuity + Memory) roll.
					The threshold for this roll is always 3, on success the unconcious character awakens and the status is removed.
						However, this roll does not reduce the character's Stress, leaving the character 
						vulnerable to the Unconcious status if their Stress increases again.
					 
		Stress is normally lowered by resting, although some abilities exist that can lower Stress during combat.
		Likewise, some abilities can remove, ignore, or prevent Stress from increasing, as well as preventing, ignoring, or
			preventing its associated statuses or their effects. 

	
	Defense: Equal to the sum of a character's Heartiness and Finesse.
		Represents a characters ability remain unaffected by attacks.
		If a dice rolled for an attack meets or exceeds the target's Defense, their Damage increases by the amount rolled.


	Movement Value: a number of meters equal to the character's Speed.
		A character moves a distance up to their Movement Value whenever they take the Move action.
		A character moves a distance up to twice their Movement Value whenever they take the Sprint action.


	Action Points: equal to 1 plus a character's Speed.
		Characters must expend Action Points to perform actions during combat, such as moving, attacking,
			interacting with equipment, or using abilities.
		Action Points reset at the start of a character's turn.


	Carry Weight: a number of kilos equal to 10 times a character's Power.
		Characters can normally carry an amount up to their Carry Weight without penalty.
		A character can carry amounts greater than their Carry Weight up to twice their Carry Weight, but gained the 
			Burdened status when doing so.
		A Burdened character can use the Move action, but cannot use the Sprint action or the Attack action.
	
		A character can attempt to hold up amounts greater than twice their Carry Weight, but cannot use other actions while doing so.
			If a characters attempts to hold up extreme weight in this way, they must use an action to make a dice roll.
			The roll is Athletics (Power), and the GM determines the threshold based on the apparent difficulty of the situation.
				Note: if a character attempts to hold up unrealistic amounts of weight, the GM can set the threshold
					high enough to make the roll impossible, or simply declare the action an automatic failure.
			The GM may require repetitions of this roll to hold up the weight for extended periods of time.
			
				
\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\


