

Character Statuses are various states a character can be in, causing harmful or beneficial effects while character has the Status.



Wounded: Applied when Damage increases and the result is equal to or higher than the character's Health.
	When a character becomes Wounded, they take 2d4 Stress. 
	Wounded characters have a -1 Potential on all actions.
	Wounded characters must roll 1d6 whenever their Damage increases, if the result is higher than their Heartiness 
		they receive an Injury. This roll is called the Injury Save.
	The Wounded status is removed automatically if Damage is lowered to a value that is less than the character's Health.
	When the Wounded status is removed from a character, their Stress lowers by an amount equal to their Tenacity.



Dying: Applied when Damage increases and the result is equal to or higher than twice the character's Health.
	When a character starts Dying, they take 3d4 Stress.
	Dying characters become permanantly dead if their Damage increases.
	Dying characters must roll 1d6 at the end of each of their turns, if the result is higher than their Heartiness
		they permanently die. This roll is called the Death Save.
	The Dying status is removed automatically if Damage is lowered to a value that is less than twice the character's Health.
	When the Dying status is removed from a character, their Stress lowers by an amount equal to their Tenacity.



Injury: Can be applied when a character fails the Injury Save, or when a single attack increases a character's Damage by an amount 
		equal to or greater than half the Character's Health.

	Injuries are permanant physical maladies that can impart various penalties. 
	Medical aid and technology can help reverse, counteract, or occassionally overcome an Injury.
	However, advanced medicine is not universal in Dreyüs, nor without complications.

	Injuries:
		
		Eye 		| -1 Acuity
		Face		| -1 Charm
		Head		| -1 Memory
		Arm		| -1 Power
		Hand		| -1 Finesse
		Leg/Foot	| -1 Speed

	
	When a character recieves an Injury, their Stress increases by 2d4.
	When an Injury is removed from a character, their Stress lowers by an amount equal to their Tenacity.
	
	

	These injuries should be considered severe. Eye, arm, hand, leg, and foot injuries should involve either the loss of the 
		body part or significant enough damage to inhibit its functionality. Head injuries should be at least severe
		concussion, and probably involve significant damage to the brain. Face injuries should be disfiguring in an 
		unsettling way, and could even involve loss of bone mass from the skull or jaw. 

	Determining what body part is injured can be done in several ways. Attackers may choose to attack specific targets, and
		the GM may determine if those targets are damaged if the attacker rolls decently enough. Otherwise, the GM may
		decide what injury occurs in whatever way they choose, such as simply selecting one that fits the story and scenario
		or utilizing dice to determine one at random.

	Optionial Rule:
		To lower the potential for a Wounded character to recieve multiple Injuries in a row the GM may choose to make use
		of this rule. Whenever a character recieves an Injury, the Injury Save changes until the end of the current fight.
		The Injured character adds an extra d6 to the Injury Save each time they take an Injury during the fight, and the
		character must fail on each of the dice rolled (i.e. roll higher than their Heartiness on every dice) in order to 
		take another Injury during the same fight. 



Stabilized: Applied to Wounded or Dying characters by some medical treatments, particularly Traumapaks or Medicine Techniques.
	Whenever a Wounded character that is Stabilized fails an Injury Save, the Injury is prevented and the Stabilized condition
		is removed.
	Whenever a Dying character that is Stabilized takes damage or fails a Death Save, they do not die and the Stabilized
		condition is removed.



Shaken: Applied when Stress increases and the result is equal to or higher than the character's Control.
	
	Shaken characters have a -1 Potential on all actions.



Panicked: Applied when Stress increases and the result is equal to or higher than twice the character's Control.
	
	Panicked characters must roll 2d6 at the start of each of their turns,
		
		if both dice land on a value higher than the character's Tenacity, they suffer a -3 Action Point penalty for the turn.
		
		If only one dice lands on a value higher than the character's Tenacity, they suffer a -1 Action Point penalty for 
			the turn instead.
		
		If no dice land on a value higher than the character's Tenacity, they suffer no Action Point penalty for the turn.
	This roll is called the Panic Save.


Unconscious: Applied automatically when Stress increases and the result is equal to or higher than three times the character's Control.
	Unconcious characters cannot act or move, and their Defense becomes 1.
	Unconcious characters can be awoken by an ally's Medicine (Acuity + Memory) roll.
		The threshold for this roll is always 3, on success the unconcious character awakens and the status is removed.
		However, this roll does not reduce the character's Stress, leaving the character vulnerable 
			to the Unconcious status if their Stress increases again.
		During combat this action should require at least 1 AP to be expended.
	Unconscious characters undergoing medical treatment gain a buff granting one reroll for each dice that failed during a 
		Treatment Save.


Burdened: Applied when a character carries an amount greater than their Carry Weight.
	Burdened characters cannot use the Sprint action or any Attack action, but may use the Move action.
	Abilities might specifiy limitations for Burdened characters.	


Knocked Down: Applied when a character fails a Thrown Save.
	Knocked Down characters cannot normally attack or defend themselves, and most use a Move Action and expend half of their 
	Movement Value, rounded up, to stand up before taking other Actions. (Note: some Abilities can provide bonuses allowing
	for character's to act in certain ways while Knocked Down.)
	The normal Thrown Save requires the character to roll 1d6, and if the result is higher than their Finesse, they fail.
		Some Techniques can force a character to roll extra d6's during a Thrown Save, and require the character to succeed
		on each dice in order to avoid being Knocked Down.


Restrained: Applied when a character fails a Restrained Save.
	Restrained characters cannot move away from the source of the Restrained effect without first freeing themself.
	To free themself, the affected character must expend 1 AP and repeat the Restrained Save that they originally failed.
	If they fail on any dice, they remained Restrained.
	
	Other than the movement restriction, Restrained characters can act normally. 
	
	The normal Restrained Save requires the character to choose between their Finesse or Power, and then roll 1d6. If the result
	is higher than the chosen Attribute, they fail. 
		Some Techniques can force a character to roll extra d6's during a Restrained Save, and require the character to 
		succeed on each dice in order to avoid being Knocked Down.


Inflamed: Applied when a character is set of fire.
	Inflamed characters take Damage at the start of each of their turns until the fire burns out, or is directly extinguished.
	The duration of this Status and the amount of Damage taken each turn is determined by the source of the Status.
	Damage dealt by this Status is not affected by Armor Mitigation. 
	
	A character affected by this Status can expend 1 AP and roll 2d6 to attempt to put out the fire. The fire is extinguished
	if the result of both dice is less than or equal to the character's Finesse.
	
	Alternatively, a character affected by this Status can expend 2 AP and roll 1d6 to attempt to put out the fire. The fire is
	extinguished if the result of the die is less than or equal to the character's Finesse.  
 	Either of these rolls are referred to as a Extinguish Save.
	
	Other individuals can also attempt to make an Extinguish Save to end the Inflamed Status on an ally.


Toxified: Applied when a character fails the Toxify Save.
	This status can take two forms: permanent or temporary. The temporary form ends automatically after a determined number of 
	turns, and can also be ended if treated, or if the affected individual dies. The permanent form only ends when treated, or 
	if death occurs.
	
	While affected by this Status, an individual takes Damage and Stress at the start of each of their turns. The amount is 
	determined by a singular die, however the size of that die varies based on the source of the Status. Typically it is 
	equivalent to the die provided by the corressponding Ability Level (1d6, 1d8, 1d10, or 1d12).
	Damage and Stress taken is equal to the amount rolled.
	Additionally, individuals affected by this Status cannot benefit from the Combat Regeneration Technique.
	
	This Status can always be ended by a use of the Antidote Technique, or a Regen-Stim, however it cannot be ended by the 
	Combat Regeneration Technique. A Journeyman or higher rank Traumapak will also end this Status. 
	An individual can expend 1 AP and make a 2d6 Treatment Save to diagnose a target and determine the presence of this Status.
	This Status can always be treated by a medical workstation, med-bay, or hospital. 

	A character cannot be affected by multiple sources of this Status, if multiple sources of this Status would be applied, the
	source with the highest Ability Level is the one that is used unless a lower Ability Level source is permanent and the
	highest Ability Level source is only temporary.