

Attributes are the primary stats of the system.



They are represented as integer values from 1 to 5, with 1 being the minimum a character may have, representing a "below average"
	human ability, and 5 five being the maximum they might have, representing a "near super-human" ability.



Derived stats such as a character's Health, Defense, Action Points, and Carry Weight are derived from Attributes.



Attributes also determines the character's Potential, or the available number of dice, for an associated roll.
	Some simple actions, such as moving a heavy object or recalling a piece of information, may rely on one Attribute alone,
		In these cases, Potential is equal to the associated Attribute. 
			E.g. Move Object (Power) or Recall (Memory), Potential = Power or Memory.
	More skilled or complex actions, such as attacking or operating a device or machine, may rely on a combination of two 
		different Attributes.
		In these cases, Potential equals half the sum of the two Attributes.
			E.g. Markmanship (Finesse + Acuity) or Engineering (Acuity + Memory), 
				Potential = (Finesse + Acuity) / 2 or (Acuity + Memory) / 2. 
	
	This means that more complicated and difficult actions will require characters to develop their capability in multiple fields.
	Likewise simpler actions are less demanding on a character's capability, and thus be performed more consistently at first. 




All characters start with a "1" in each Attribute, with the character's class providing a starting a bonus of +1 or +2 to different
	Attributes related to the class's archetype. 



Character's can raise their Attributes via Experience Points earned through significant accomplishments. 







The following is the list of Attributes, and their general description:

	Heartiness: Represents a character's physical endurance, directly deriving Health and contributing to Defense.
		Hearty characters are harder to hurt, and can absorb more damage than the average person.
	
	Tenacity: Represents a characer's mental resilience, and their ability to stay calm and handle Stress. Derives Control stat.
		Tenacious characters can endure stressful situations longer, and maintain self-control better than the average person.

	Speed: Represents a character's alacrity, directly deriving Actions Points and the character's Movement Value. 
		Speedy characters cover ground more quickly, and act more often than the average person.

	Finesse: Represents a character's physical precision and deftness, and contributes to Defense alongside Heartiness.
		Fine characters can aim better, act more subtly, and avoid attacks easier than the average person.

	Acuity: Represents a character's ability to perceive, understand, and conceptualize accurately, as well as one's skillfullness.
		Acute characters notice things others don't, are more analytical, and are more technically capable than the average person.
	
	Power: Represents a character's physical strength, contributing to one's melee damage and directly deriving Carry Weight.
		Powerful characters can hit harder and bear more weight than the average person.

	Charm: Represents a character's charisma, their ability to appeal to others in various aways, and get the best from cooperation.
		Charming characters are better at intimidating, persuading, or convincing others, and are better leaders than the average person.

	Memory: Represents a character's depth of knowledge and ability to recall experiences or information accurately, especially under stress.
		Rentitive characters are do the best technical work, and are normally regarded as more intelligent than the average person.



The following is a list of the stats derived from Attributes, and any counterparts to those stats.

	Health: Equal to ten times the character's Heartiness. 
		Represents a character's ability to withstand physical damage.

	Damage: Counterpart to Health.
		
		Whenever a character is physically harmed Damage increases.
			Whenever Damage reaches or exceeds a character's Health, they are considered Wounded, receiving a penalty to their rolls.
			Whenever Damage reaches or exceeds a value equal to twice a character's Health, they are considered Dieing.
			Whenever Damage increases when a character is Dieing, they permanantly die.
			Dieing characters must roll 1d6 at the end of each of their turns, if the result is higher than their Heartiness, they permanently die.
		
		Character's can receive an Injury or instantly die if a single attack increases Damage by a signigicant amount.
			
			If a single attack increases Damage by a value equal to or greater than a character's Health, they receive an Injury.
				Injuries are permanant physical maladies that can impart various penalties. 
				Medical aid and technology can help reverse, counteract, or occassionally overcome and Injury.
					However, advanced medicine is not universal in Dreyüs, nor without complications.
			
			If a singe attack increases Damage by value equal to or greater than twice a character's Health, that character instantly and permanantly dies.	
			    
		

	TODO: Control, Stress, Defense, Movement Value, Carry Weight