

Character Statuses are various states a character can be in, causing harmful or beneficial effects while character has the Status.



Wounded: Applied when Damage increases and the result is equal to or higher than the character's Health.
	Wounded characters have a -1 Potential on all actions.
	Wounded characters must roll 1d6 whenever their Damage increases, if the result is higher than their Heartiness 
		they receive an Injury. This roll is called the Injury Save.
	The Wounded status is removed automatically if Damage is lowered to a value that is less than the character's Health.



Dieing: Applied when Damage increases and the result is equal to or higher than twice the character's Health.
	Dieing characters become permanantly dead if their Damage increases.
	Dieing characters must roll 1d6 at the end of each of their turns, if the result is higher than their Heartiness
		they permanently die. This roll is called the Death Save.
	The Dieing status is removed automatically if Damage is lowered to a value that is less than twice the character's Health.


Injury: Can be applied when a character fails the Injury Save, or when a single attack increases a character's Damage by an amount 
		equal to or greater than half the Character's Health.

	Injuries are permanant physical maladies that can impart various penalties. 
	Medical aid and technology can help reverse, counteract, or occassionally overcome and Injury.
	However, advanced medicine is not universal in Dreyüs, nor without complications.
	

Shaken: Applied when Stress increases and the result is equal to or higher than the character's Control.
	
	Shaken characters have a -1 Potential on all actions.



Panicked: Applied when Stress increases and the result is equal to or higher than twice the character's Control.
	
	Panicked characters must roll 2d6 at the start of each of their turns,
		
		if both dice land on a value higher than the character's Tenacity, they suffer a -3 Action Point penalty for the turn.
		
		If only one dice lands on a value higher than the character's Tenacity, they suffer a -1 Action Point penalty for 
			the turn instead.
		
		If no dice land on a value higher than the character's Tenacity, they suffer no Action Point penalty for the turn.



Unconcious: Applied when Stress increases and the result is equal to or higher than three times the character's Control.
	Unconcious characters cannot act or move, and their Defense becomes 1.
	Unconcious characters can be awoken by an allies Medicine (Acuity + Memory) roll.
		The threshold for this roll is always 3, on success the unconcious character awakens and the status is removed.
		However, this roll does not reduce the character's Stress, leaving the character vulnerable 
			to the Unconcious status if their Stress increases again.	


Burdened: Applied when a character carries an amount greater than their Carry Weight.
	Burdened characters cannot use the Sprint action or Attack action, but may use the Move action.
	Abilities might specifiy limitations for Burdened characters.	