Vehicle System ---- Primary Document

Vehicle Actions - REVIEW READY

Vehicle Status - TODO

Movement - REVIEW READY

Attacks - REVIEW READY

Vehicle Roles - REVIEW READY

Sky-ship Attributes - REVIEW READY



\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\



Vehicle Actions - 
	Individuals can spend AP while crewing a vehicle to take various Vehicle Actions.

	Unless stated otherwise, individuals can typically only take one Vehicle Action per round.

	Vehicle Actions can result in the vehicle moving, attacking, or performing some other function.
	
	Rolls for Vehicle Actions resolve in three ways: Excellent, Inadequate, or Failure.
		
		-> Failure occurs when at least half of all dice rolled for a Vehicle Action roll a "1". If this happens, 
			the vehicle does not perform its action at all or performs the action incorrectly in a non-beneficial way.
		
		-> Inadequate occurs when no dice meet or exceed the threshold of the roll.
			The vehicle will either perform its action poorly, or perform in incompletely.
		
		-> Excellent occurs when the threshold for the roll is met, and a Failure does not occur.
			The vehicle will perform the action correctly and to its best capability.

	Cooperative Rolls - Sometimes, particularly on Sky-ships, multiple individuals will make rolls to contribute to a 
		Vehicle Action.
			
		This most often occurs with Navigation Rolls, but can occur elsewhere, such as when multiple Engineers make
			Repair Rolls.
			
		When performing Cooperative Rolls all individuals must meet the threshold on their roles in order to achieve
			Excellent. 
			
		However, if an individual succeeds with multiple dice, they may choose one partner from the roll and have
			that partner's roll be considered successful as well. An individual may only do this for one partner
			at a time.    
		
		All individuals rolling as part of cooperative roll have their rolled 1's counted collectively and 
				compared against the total dice rolled in order to determine if it is a Failure instead. 
		


\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\



Vehicle Status - TODO
	
	Describe the general conditions of a vehicle. Such as its Ship Health and Systems, and the various statuses they can be in.


\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\


Movement: 
	All vehicles require an individual to roll to determine the quality of the vehicle's movement.


	Terrestial Vechicles
		These are vehicles that are propelled by interacting with the ground directly, such as with wheels or tracks.
		This contrasts with grounded wind-driven vehicles, which use the wind for propulsion, despite not truly flying.
		
		These are typically driven by one character directly as the Pilot Role. 
		Normally these vehicles require the Pilot to make a Driving(Finesse + Acuity) roll.
			The threshold for these rolls is determined by the Vehicle's base Handling plus the Terrain Difficulty.
				Handling is a Vehicle Attribute represented as an integer value of 1 or greater, 
					it describes the general difficulty of controlling the vehicle.
				Terrain Difficulty, also represented as an integer value or 0,
					describes the ease of maneuvering a vehicle through a given area.
						Examples:
							Paved Surface 	- 0
							Unpaved Road 	- 1
							Loose Dirt/Sand - 2
							Shallow Mud 	- 3
							Deep Dirt/Sand 	- 4
							Deep Mud	- 5
							Steep Slope	- +2 (Added modifier to base Terrain Difficulty)
							(Note: it is possible for certain Handling + TD combinations to create values
								great than 12, making the manuever impossible to perform with an
								Excellent result. The roll may still be attempted, but the best 
								possible result is instead simply Inadequate.)
		These vehicles have a Land Speed, which describes their maximum movement distance.
			The quality of the roll's result (Excellent, Inadequate, Failure) interact with Land Speed to determine 
				the acutal distance travelled as the result of the roll.
					Excellent 	- Full Land Speed
					Inadequate	- Movement Penalty (Half Speed?)
					Failure		- No movement at all, minimal movement, or catastrophy
						(Note: Failure on rolls when the vehicle is already moving at speed from a previous 
							turn might cause the vehicle to crash or otherwise go out of control.)
	

	Wind-driven Vehicles
		These are vehicles that are propelled by natural wind currents, with or without other sources of propulsion.
		The most iconic of this class of vehicles would by the Sky-sailing Ships in all their various forms,
			however many other sorts of vehicles exist in this class, such as sail-boards, sea-sailing ships, and 
			other surface-based craft that use weak LDs to hover a small distance above the ground or water.
		
		Depending on the vehicle, the Pilot, Helmsman, and/or Navigator Roles are used to control movement.
			Large, fully-crewed Sky-sailing Ships may even require a Helmsman, Navigator, and Engineer all working 
			together in order to achieve optimal movement.
		
		Nearly all vehicles in this class utilize Navigation rolls for their movement, however the number of such rolls,
			as well as the Attributes used for the roll, can vary between vehicles and related roles. 
			Typically these will nearly always involve Acuity, either alone or split with another Attribute.
		
		The threshold for movement rolls can differ slightly, but will normally use a base of 3 + some modifier.
			Typically the modifier is Navigational Difficulty (ND), which describes the difficulty of guiding the vehicle.
				Navigational Difficulty varies for each vehicle, with a sepereate value for each relative Direction.
			Besides ND, Lift-Drive Class (LDC) is the 2nd most common modifier for these rolls, but is only applicable 
				whenever altitude changes are made. If an Engineer is handling the altitude change, the threshold 
				for their roll is 6 + LDC modifier.
				(Note: These rules will become more clear as the other relevant mechanics are explained.)
		
		While the maximum achievable speed is determined by the combination of the Vehicle's Speed, its Direction of travel 
			relative to the wind, and the Wind Intensity, the quality of the result of the roll determines how much of
			that potential speed is actually achieved.
				Excellent	- Full Speed
				Inadequate	- Half Speed (Note: If this would result in < 1 m/s, the vehicle does not move.)
				Failure		- No movement at all or incorrect movement, and catastrophy (possibly turn penalty)		

		These vehicles will have a surface-speed and/or sky-speed (depending on the vehicle) that describes their maximum
			movement distance under ideal conditions (i.e. Reaching during Strong Winds)
			Surface-speed and/or Sky-speed are listed in a vehicle's description.
			These values are used as the base value when deriving the actual movement speed of the vehicle for a round.
				Wind Intensity subtracts from this base value, limiting the maximum speed of the vehicle.
				Direction of travel determines what percentage of that adjusted value is achievable. 
			
		Wind Intensity describes the general strength of the wind along its direction of travel.
			Wind Intensity is described as either Strong, Normal, Weak, or Calm (no wind).
			(Note: these general descriptions are used in lieu of exact wind speeds for simplicity.)
				Strong Winds are the most intense. While they do allow for the greatest speed, they frequently 
					acompany storms and other unsafe conditions.
				Normal Winds are moderate intensity. Little danger is associated with this intensity, 
					however vehicles cannot achieve their true maximum speed under these conditions.
				Weak Winds are low intensity. While completely non-threatening, vehicles' max speed is further
					reduced at this intensity.
				Still Winds are non-intensive, being essentially of negligible speed. Vehicles will either be unable
					to move, or only drift slowly.
		Wind Intensity affects the maximum speed of a vehicle in the following ways:
			Strong - Full Speed
			Normal - -5 m/s
			Weak   - -10 m/s
			Calmed - Max speed = 1 m/s
			(Note: Normal and Weak winds cannot reduce a vehicle's speed below 1 m/s.)
			(Additional Note: if an altitude change is made as part of a movement, the Wind Intensity of the initial
				position is used to determine possible speed.)
		
		Direction - wind-driven vehicles have three directions of lateral movement relative to the wind.
			These are Reaching, Downwind, and Windward.
			Reaching is movement that is roughly perpendicular to the wind's direction.
			Downwind is movement along the wind's direction.
			Windward is movemnt against the wind's direction.
				(Note: For simplicity, tacking is performed automatically for Windward movement, and does not 
					require the players to calculate or describe a true-to-life course. In other words, Players
					can consider Windward movement as a straight line and describe it as such, with the 
					understanding that characters in-world are utilizing realistic techniques, and are not
					defying the laws of physics insofar as sailing techniques are concerned.) 
		The direction of travel relative to the wind's direction affects the actual travelling speed of the vehicle.
			Reaching movement allows for the maximum possible speed in the given Wind Intensity.
			Downwind movement restricts a vehicle to 75% of its maximum possible speed in the given Wind Intensity.
			Windward movements restricts a vehicle to 50% of its maximum possible speed in the given Wind Intensity.
			(Note: Downwind and Windward movement cannot reduce a vehicle's speed below 1 m/s.)
			(Additional Note: similiar to Wind Intensity, if an altitude change is made as part of a movement, the inital
				Direction relative to the wind is used to determine possible speed.)

		
		All together, a vehicle's movement is determined using the following process:
			A crew member, typically the Navigator, decides the intended course. 
			Once the Direction is determined (Reaching, Downwind, Windward), and whether or not an altitude change is 
				desired, the roll threshold is set based on the vehicle's Navigational Difficulty for that direction
				and/or the Lift-Drive Class. These values are added to a base of 3 to determine the roll(s) threshold.
				(Note: Depending on the how responsibilities are divided, different Crew Roles may have different
					thresholds for the same movement roll. This is most notable whenever a crew is using a 
					Navigator, Helmsman, and Engineer in cooperation. This is explained in detail in the 
					Crew Roles segment.)
			Starting from the vehicle's relevant speed (surface or sky), first any reduction from Wind Intensity 
				is applied, if appropriate. Then, any reduction due to Direction is applied, rounded down to the 
				nearest whole number if necessary. The resulting value is the vehicle's maximum speed for that round. 
			After the threshold and speed is determined, all relevant rolls are made and the quality of the result is
				revealed. 
				If the result was Excellent, the vehicle moves at 100% of the determined speed.
				If it was Inadequate, the vehicle suffers a 50% reduction to the determined speed, rounded down, 
					if this goes below 1 m/s, the vehicle doesn't move, but is otherwise uninhibited.
				If it was a Failure, the vehicle doesn't move at all or moves in a way that is harmful to the crew's
					efforts, and suffers from some catastrophy that requires one or more crew members to take
					corrective actions before full control of the vehicle is regained. 

		A few specific examples to demonstrate the process:
			
			The Navigator of a 3-masted Full-rigged sky-ship of average width (in this case also equipped with automated
				rigging and a Lift-Drive class of Normal) sets a Reaching course in Strong Winds, 
				along with an altitude change. (Note: the ship is already at altitude, rather than the surface.)
			This ship requires the Navigator, Helmsman, and Engineer to make seperate rolls in cooperation.
				The Navigator's roll is Navigation (Acuity + Memory), with a threshold equal to 3 plus the Reaching 
					ND for this ship ( 3 + 6 for a total of 9).
				The Helmsman's roll is Navigation (Acuity), with the same threshold as the Navigator's roll.
					(base 3 + the ships Reaching ND of 6 for a total of 9.)
				The Engineer's roll is Navigation (Acuity + Memory), with a threshold equal to 6 plus the modifier 
					from the ship's Lift-Drive Class (+0 for a LDC of Normal, so the threshold in this case is
					simply 6).
			This ship's sky speed is 15 m/s, the winds are Strong (no reduction), and the ship is reaching (no reduction).
				So the ship's maximum speed for this round is the full 15 m/s. 
			The Navigator, Helmsman, and Engineer all roll, each manage to meet or beat the threshold, and the total 
				amount of 1's rolled is less than half the total amount of dice rolled. 
				With these rolls, the result of the overall Cooperative Roll is Excellent, and thus the ship moves
					at 15 m/s in the desired direction while making the desired altitude change.
			(Note: any Failures or Inadequecies from some, but not all, of the involved crew leaves the exact nature of 
				the outcome to the GM, however it's recommended to associate the result with the aspect of the roll
				that was unsuccessful. E.g. a failed Engineer roll might cause the craft to simply not change 
				altitude, or change in the wrong direction, or a failed Navigator's roll might incur the movement
				speed penalty, but not affect the altitude change.)

			
			A Lancer operating a Lancer Sail-Board decides to move Windward while the Wind Intensity is Normal. 
				(Note: altitude changes do not affect the roll for these craft).
			The Lancer's roll is Navigation (Finesse + Acuity), and the threshold is 3 plus the ND of this craft, in this
				case we'll say it is 5, so the threshold is 8 (since 3 + 5 = 8).
			This Sail-Board's Sky-Speed is 30 m/s, reduced by 5 m/s down to 25 m/s due to Normal Wind Intensity, and the 
				Direction is Windward, so the 25 m/s is reduced by 50%, rounded down, for a result of 12 m/s.
				So the craft's maximum speed for this round is 12 m/s.
			The Lancer rolls and does not meet or beat the threshold of 8, but less than half of the dice rolled are 1's,
				so the result of the roll is just Inadequate.
			The Inadequate result applies another 50% reduction to the 12 m/s speed, down to merely 6 m/s. However the 
				movement does still occur since the final speed speed is not < 1 m/s.
			The action resolves, and the craft moves 6 m/s along the desired course.



			The lone Navigator of an average width Cutter sky-ship equipped with a High Power Lift-Drive sets a 
				Downwind course with an altitude change during Weak Winds.
			The Navigator's roll is Navigation (Acuity + Memory), with a threshold equal to 3 + the ship's Downwind ND, 
				plus the Lift-Drive Class Modifier, because the Navigator is handling the altitude change, rather
				than delegating the task to a dedicated Engineer.
				So, the threshold for this roll is 4 ( 3 + 2 *Downwind ND* + -1 *High Power Lift-Drive Class* = 4 )
			The Cutter's Sky-Speed is 20 m/s, Weak Winds reduce this by 10 m/s, then the Downwind penalty is applied,
				rounded down, bringing the speed to 7 m/s ( 20 - 10 = 10, 10 x .75 = 7.5, round down to 7).
				So the ship's maximum speed for this round is 7 m/s.
			The Navigator rolls, and half of the dice rolled are 1's, so the result of the roll is a Failure, regardless
				of if any other dice meet or beat the threshold. 
			The action resolves, and the GM decides that the Navigator's Failure manifests as the character having
				mishandled the controls, leading to the rigging becoming tangled before the Navigator could get
				the ship to move. Thus the ship fails to move at all, due to the Navigator halting the process in 
				order to begin to untangle the rigging. The GM determines that the untangling process will take the 
				crew 1 round to complete, resulting in the ship being unable to utilize the wind until a round is 
				spent fixing the problem. (Note: this exact situation, as formulated by the theoretical GM, would 
				still allow the ship to change altitude. The GM is free to determine to what exact extent a 
				Failure will inhibit the Players, but GM's are encouraged to avoid multiple-round penalties unless 
				it seems appopriate for the circumstances.)


		Alternatively, the order of operations performed for movements can be changed slightly if desired, so long as it is
			not done in a way that provides the Players any undue insight or unfair meta-gaming. Changes to this order 
			should only be made out of personal preference or for ease of use, and never to gain any mechanical advantage.

			For instance, Players might calculate the potential speed for all 3 directions before deciding which one 
				to attempt. In fact, Players dedicated to being Navigators might keep a chart of the exact potential
				speed of their ship for every combination of Wind Intensity and Direction, though this is not
				a requirement.
			Or, dice rolls might be made immediately after determining the thresholds, and then calculating the potential
				speed of the movement before applying the result of the roll. 
			
		Regardless, rolls should NEVER be revealed before determining the direction or the threshold of the roll. 
			Players might roll preemptively if the course of action was previously agreed upon, but knowledge of the roll
			result should not be used to incentivize any change to the actions being taken. (I.e. don't meta-game rolls).
		Likewise, calculating speed should always take the following order:
			Vehicle Speed -> Wind Intensity -> Direction Penalty -> Roll Result
			Performing this operation in any other order could result in unintended outcomes. 
			



\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\



Attacks: 
	

	Attacks from vehicles are generally similiar to attacks made from individuals on foot.
	
	First, as when making regular attacks, an attacker determines the size of the dice they will roll and the maximum number of 
		dice they may throw.
		Size is determined by the user's Level in the relevant Ability.
		Quantity is determined by their Potential for the roll, derived from the Attributes used from the roll, as well as
			any Bonus Potential provided by the Force of the vehicle's weapons.
			
	After choosing how many dice to roll, the attacker rolls those dice.
	
	Unlike regular attacks, vehicle attacks, like other vehicle rolls, suffer a Failure if at least half of the dice 
		rolled land on a "1". 
	
	If the result of the roll is a Failure, the attack cannot hit even if other dice rolled at or over the target's defense.
		Additionally, at the GM's discretion, a Failure can be accompanied other negative consequences, such as the attack
			hitting an unintended target instead or the weapons malfunctioning and requiring time and/or effort to reset.
			(Note: GM's are heavily encouraged to be dynamic with the consequences of Failures, and make use of them 
				as storytelling tools that can be adapted to the situation at hand.)
			(Suggestion: if you desire a standard or default consequence for a Failure from a Vehicle Attack, you
				may simply have the weapon system have a "Malfunction" and become Critical status requiring a 
				System Stabilization roll with a threshold for the roll equal to either 3 or twice the Force from the 
				relevant vehicle weapon, whichever is higher.)

	If the result of the roll is Inadequate, where no dice met or exceeded the target's defense but a Failure did not occur,
		then the attack either hits for no damage or misses entirely, but without other negative consequences.

	If the result of the roll is Excellent, then the attack succeeds and the target takes damage equal to the value of the 
		successful dice that met or exceeded the target's Defense.

	Whenever a vehicle is targeted, the affected systems of the ship should be relevant to the area of the vehicle that is being
		hit. 
	An attacker might attmept to target specific areas of another vehicle for this reason, if possible, although the viability 
		of certain targets might be limited by the attacker's weapon.
		For instance, while a sky-sailing ships gundecks can target any area they can see with relative ease, a Lancer 
			attempting to attack above the main deck of an enemy ship might find themselves more vulnerable to 
			attacks from that ships crew.
		In general, the potential consequences of the situation created by an attempted attack should be consider by the GM
			and the player, and allow that to guide both the roleplay and the mechanical gameplay, affecting what might
			happen as the result of Failures from the attack or how player characters or enemies might respond to 
			particular assaults.  
	
	Note regarding vehicles being attacked:
	Attacks from individuals on foot deal 1/4 the value of successful dice, rounded down (minimun of 1) when targeting vehicles,
		unless with attacking with a weapon that states otherwise.
	


\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\



Vehicle Roles:
	
	Vehicle Roles are in essence the "jobs" that player characters or npcs can perform in order to crew a vehicle.
	A vehicle description will have a list of its required Roles, and may include optional or unique Roles for that vehicle there
		as well.
	Roles, unlike Classes, are not set or permanent in any way. As long as a character meets the requirements to perform the
		Role, they may act in that Role as a crew member of a vehicle.
	 Different vehicles may have different requirements as a minumun to perform a particular Role on that craft, and occasionally
		Roles maybe restricted to particular Classes, with characters of incorrect class being heavily penalized if 
		attempting to perform that Role. The most notable example of this is the Lancer Role, which is uniquely restricted 
		to the Lancer Class, for the Lancer Craft. Other classes could attempt to perform in the Lancer Role, but are heavily
		penalized when attempting to manuever in combat or attack. 
		(Note: other classes can instead use the Pilot Role to manuever Lancer Craft, but are entirely prevented 
			from attacking when doing so.)
	Switching from one Role to another while crewing a vehicle typically requires a regular Action and the expense of some AP.
		Depending on the difficulty of the transition, the GM may require more than one Action Point to make the change, or
			even require a dice roll.

 

	Engineer - Manages craft's technological systems.
		Typical Rolls:
			
			Altitude Change - On Size Class Medium and larger sky-ships an Engineer must make a 
				Navigation Roll (Acuity + Memory) seperate from the Navigator's and/or Helmsman's Navigation Rolls
				when the ship is changing altitude. The threshold for this roll is 6 plus the modifier from 
				the ship's Lift-Drive Class.
			
			System Stabilization - When a ship's systems become Critical due to the ship's Damage value meeting its 
				Ship Health, an Engineer can make a Engineering Roll (Acuity + Memory) to attempt damage control
				and stabilize the affected systems. This removes the Critical status and it's associated penalties.
				Note: Anytime a ship is hit and its Damage meets or exceeds its Ship Health, the Critical status is
				applied, even if the a System Stabilization action succeeded previously. System Stabilization can be
				used again to remove the Critical status if reapplied, but it does not prevent the reapplication 
				of the status.
			
			Repairs - Outside of Combat, Engineers can lead the effort to repair a ship, lowering its Damage value.
				This roll can be made once per day, and the work associated with the roll occupies that day. 
				Engineers must have access to appropriate materials. The roll is affected by the number of
				individuals assisting in repairs.
					If the Engineer is alone, the roll is Engineering (Acuity + Memory), 
						but suffers from -2 Potential for the roll. (Potential cannot be reduced below 1.)
					If the Engineer has one assistant, the roll is Engineering (Acuity + Memory), but suffers
						but suffers from -1 Potential for the roll. (Potential cannot be reduced below 1.)
					If the Engineer is leading 2 or 3 others, the roll is Engineering (Acuity + Memory).
					If the Engineer is leading at least 4 others, the roll is Engineering (Charm + Memory),
						and gains a bonus to Potential for the roll equal to half the number of assistants.
				The threshold for this roll is always 6, and the Damaged reduced is equal to the combined value of
					successful dice.

	

	Gunner/Gunnery Officer - Operates a craft's guns or directs Auxillary Crew in their use.
		
		Gunnery Rolls when the Gunner operates guns directly themself are Marksmanship (Acuity) Rolls.
			Note: this can be when the craft only has a single weapon, when a craft has fully automated gunnery, 
				or when their is insufficient crew to man a ship's gundecks.
		
		Gunnery Rolls when a Gunnery Officer directs crew members use of guns are Marksmanship (Acuity + Charm) Rolls.
			Note: only the Gunnery Officer needs to roll when these attacks are made.
		
		Typical Rolls:
			
			Shoot - Gunner attacks with the weapon system of the craft. Always a Marksmanship (Acuity) Roll.
				Note: This is the typical action when the craft possess a singular primary projectile weapon.
			
			Broadside Volley - Gunner or Gunnery Officer attacks with the broadside weapons to the port or starboard side.
				Receives bonus Potential equal to the ship's Broadside Power.
			
			Chaser Volley - Gunner or Gunnery Officer attacks with the chaser weapons in the ship's fore or aft direction.  
				Receives bonus Potential equal to the ship's Chaser Power.
	
	

	Helmsman - Operates the helm of a ship and directs the Rigging Crew, or operates the automated rigging system.
		
		The Helmsman is only a required role on ships with at least 3 masts. However, a Helmsman can be used seperately from
			a Navigator on smaller craft if there is enough crew members.
		
		A Helmsman can make Navigation (Acuity) Rolls to set a craft's course.
		
		On Size Class: Small ships, the Helmsman can combine the Engineer's roll for altitude changes into their own
			Navigation roll instead of the Navigator or Engineer. 
			The threshold for this roll is 3 plus Navigational Difficulty plus Lift-Drive Class modifier.
				(3 + ND + LD Class)
		
		If a Helmsman must direct a manual rigging crew as part of the action, their roll becomes Navigation (Acuity + Charm).
		


	Lancer - Operates a Lancer craft deployed at altitude from a Lancer Bay on a sky-ships.
		
		Only applicable when a sail-board is outfitted as a Lancer craft, otherwise the Pilot role is used instead.
		
		Lancers can always make a Vehicle Movement Action and some kind of Attack Action each round while on their craft.

		Typical Rolls:
			
			-> Movement: Navigation (Finesse + Acuity) Roll. Threshold is 3 + Navigational Difficulty.

			-> Lance Attack: Melee Weapon (Acuity + Power) Roll to attack another craft with the mounted explosive
				lance. Threshold is target craft's Defense.

			-> Small Arms Attack: Melee Weapon (Finesse + Power) or Marksmanship (Finesse + Acuity) roll to attack with
				a handheld weapon while moving with the craft. Counts as a on-foot attack rather than a vehicle one.
				Typically used to target other individual Lancers directly mid-air.



	Navigator - Determines the course a craft should take to reach its desired destination.
		
		Required Role on most wind-driven craft.

		Makes Navigation (Acuity + Memory) Rolls to set a craft's course, determining the craft's movement. 
			The threshold for this roll is 3 plus the Navigational Difficulty for the course's direction.

		On craft that do not require seperate rolls from the Engineer for altitude changes, the Navigator can incorporate
			that roll into their primary Navigation roll to make them one combined roll.
			The threshold for this roll is 3 plus Navigational Difficulty plus Lift-Drive Class modifier.
				(3 + ND + LD Class)

		On craft with less than 3 masts the Nagivator can both determine the course of the ship while handling the ship's
			controls and directing the rigging crew, if any. 
			This roll is the normal Navigation (Acuity + Memory) Roll, unless interacting with a riging crew.
			If directing a rigging crew, the roll becomes Navigation (Acuity + Charm).	



	Pilot - Similiar to a Navigator or Helmsman, this role primarily directs the movement of a craft, but may also perform
			other rolls depending on the craft.
		
		Most commonly used for terrestial vehicles, or one-person wind-driven vehicles such as sail-boards.
		
		Typical Rolls:
		
			-> Movement: Vehicle-Dependent roll to move a vehicle or set its course.
				Threshold varies by vehicle type.
				Ability and Attribute requirement varies by vehicle.
					E.g. Driving (Finesse + Acuity) Rolls for wheeled vehicles, or
						Navigation (Finesse + Acuity) Rolls for sail-boards, or
						Navigation (Acuity + Memory) Rolls for other one-person wind-driven craft.
		
			-> Attack: Attack with vehicle-mounted weapon or handheld weapons.
				Threshold is target's Defense. 
				Ability and Attribute requirement varies for vehicle and weapon type.
				Attacks made from a vehicle with handheld weapons count as on-foot attacks rather than vehicle ones.
		


Auxillary Vehicle Roles:

	Gunnery Crew - Operates Manual Gundecks on sky-ships as Auxillary Crew Members.
		
		Gunnery Rolls made when interacting with Gunnery Crews become Marksmanship (Acuity + Charm) Rolls.
			
			(Note: if their is insufficient auxillary crew for Manual Gunnery, PC's can only
				use half their Acuity, rounded down, as Potential for Attacks with the ship. 
				You recieve half the total bonus Potential from Broadside or Chase Power, rounded down.
				You can only roll 1 dice for bonus damage from the ship's Gun Class.
				Bonus Damage dealt from Gun Class is reduced to half the amount rolled, rounded down.)



	Rigging Crew - Operates Manual Rigging on sky-ships Auxillary Crew Members.
			
		Navigation Rolls made when interacting with Rigging Crews becomes Navigation (Acuity + Charm) Rolls.
		
			(Note: if their is insufficient auxillary crew for Manual Rigging, PC's will need to use AP to 
				make additional Navigation Rolls to manually rig the sails. These rolls should be Acuity + Power.
				These count as Vehicle Actions, and thus may cause course-changes to take multiple rounds to
				complete, with the ship drifting until the changes are complete.)


\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\



Sky-ship Attributes (& Components):
	
	Build:
		Size Class	- Small, Medium, Large, Huge <- Describes general size of the ship, determines available 
					Sail Plans, Gun Classes, etc.
		Sail Plan	- Rigging layout, options differ per Size Class. Derives many other Ship Attributes.
		Hull Style	- Clinker or Carvel <- Affects cost, durability, and ability to have gundecks below the topdeck.
							Note: Limited to Small and Medium ships.
		Ship Width	- Narrow, Average, Wide <- Affects the following:
			Compartments Per Deck Change:
				Small: -2, 0, +2 
				Medium:
				Large:
				Huge:
			Navigational Difficulty Change:
				All Sail Plans: -1, 0, +1
			Construction Cost Change:
				Small: -500, 0, +500
				Medium:
				Large:
				Huge:
	
	Berth and Capacity:
		Deck Limit	- Maximum number of Decks a Sail Plan can have.
					Adding multiple decks increases the cost of a ship during construction, but also increases
						number of available compartments, maximum number of possible gundecks, and generally
						increases the size, value, and impressiveness of a ship.
		Deck Number	- The real number of decks on a constructed ship.
		Dedicated Hold 	- The number of compartments on a ship only usable as cargo space. Determined by Sail Plan.
					Unaffected by Deck Limit or Deck Number.
					1 compartment is about 1 tonne (metric) of capacity, or roughly a cubed meter of space.
						(Note: this is not an exact description of such a space, but a representation of
							the usable area of the space, i.e. the effective value. In reality the size 
							would likely be at least slightly larger.)
		Compartments
		Per Deck	- The number of compartments a ship has for each of its decks. Derives from Sail Plan and Ship Width.
		Compartment
		Number		- The real number of assignable compartments on a ship during construction. 
					Equal to Compartments Per Deck x Deck Number.
		Reserved 
		Compartments	- Total number of Compartments set aside for living spaces, lift drive, gunnery, 
					and other ship components such as Doctor's Cabin, Holding Cells, Workshops, Lancer Bays, etc.
					This value is subtracted from Compartment Number to determine the number of empty
					compartments added with Dedicated Hold when determining Cargo Space. 
		Berth		- Maximum number of people the craft can accomodate comfortably. 
					Increases by reserving compartments as Crew Spaces during construction.
					Crew Spaces: 
						Bunk Cabin 	- +5 Berth  | Space: 1 Compartment
						Officer Cabin	- +2 Berth  | Space: 1 Compartment
						Captain Cabin   - +1 Berth  | Space: 1 Compartment
						Bunk Deck 	- +10 Berth | Space: 2 Compartments
							Note: Ships will require 1 or more compartments reserved as Cabins, 
								representing a norm of ship construction, however any combination of
								cabins can be built to fulfil this requirement.
		Cargo Space	- Total cargo capacity of ship as a number of compartments. 
					Equal to the number of unreserved compartments 
						plus the number of compartments described by Dedicated Hold.
					1 compartment is about 1 tonne (metric) of capacity, or roughly a cubed meter of space.	
						(Note: this is not an exact description of such a space, but a representation of
							the usable area of the space, i.e. the effective value. In reality the size 
							would likely be at least slightly larger.)
					Additional Note: Unused cargo space can be used as makeshift living spaces to accomodate
						up to 5 individuals per compartment, but compartments used this way cannot hold
						cargo at the same time, and any individuals sleeping there should experience
						1d4 Stress Damage per day.

	Movement:
		Sky-Speed 	- Maximum movement speed while Reaching in the sky. While Downwind = 75%, Windward 50%	
		Surface-Speed	- Maximum movement speed while Reaching at the surface. While Downwind = 75%, Windward 50%	
		Navigational 
		Difficulty	- 3 values (Reaching, Downwind, and Windward) used as a modifier, being added to 3 
					to determine roll threshold for Navigator's and Helmsman's Navigation Rolls.
		Lift-Drive
		Class		- Relative power of Lift-Drive for the ship's Size Class
				 	Acts as a modifier to the Navigational Roll when changing altitude.
						Added to the base 6 used for Engineering Navigation Rolls.
						Added to the base 3 plus the Navigational Difficulty when incorporated into regular
							Navigation Rolls.
					Low, Normal, High - +1, 0, -1
					Affects construction cost relative to the Ship's Size Class
						Small: -2000, 0, +2000
						Medium:
						Large:
						Huge:
					Note: on Small ships this affects the Navigator's singular Navigation Roll along with the 
						ship's Navigational Difficulty ONLY when changing altitude. Otherwise, the roll
						is only modified by Navigational Difficulty. 
						Engineer's dedicated Navigation Rolls when changing altitude on a Medium or larger
						ship is always modified by Lift-Drive Class alone, and never Navigational Difficulty. 
		Rigging Style - For ships of Size Class Medium or larger only, all Small ships are rigged as part of the singular
					Navigational Roll (Acuity + Memory) used when navigating Small ships. 		
				Manual or Automated. Dependent of whether or not automated system is installed.
					Automated	- Helmsman's Navigator Roll is Acuity
					Manual		- Helmsman's Navigator Roll is Acuity + Charm 
						(Note: if their is insufficient auxillary crew for Manual Rigging, PC's will 
							need to use AP to make additional Navigation Rolls to manually rig the sails.
							These rolls should be Acuity + Power.)
	
	Combat:
		Durability	- Derived from Sail Plan and affected by Hull Style, used to calculate Ship HP
		Ship Health	- 50 x Durability
		Defense		- Threshold for landing Damage dealing hits on the ship.
		Lancer Bays	- Number of compartments set aside to allow Lancer deployment at altitude.
					Limited per deck by Size Class:
						Small: 2
						Medium:
						Large:
						Huge:	
		Full Gundeck(s)	- Contributes to Broadside Power and Chaser Power, requires 1/2 compartments on dedicated deck
		Half Gundeck(s) - Contributes to Broadside Power, requires 1/2 the compartments of a Full Gundeck
				Note: A ship CANNOT have multiple Gundecks, Full or Half, on a single deck of a ship, regardless of
					the number of available compartments.
		Broadside Force - Added Potential for Gunnery rolls from the side.
					Derived from the number of full and half gundecks: +2 per full, +1 per half.
						Note: can be 0 if craft has no gundecks at all, and therefore is unable to attack.
		Chaser Force	- Added Potential for Gunnery rolls from the front or back.
					Derived from number of full gundecks: +1 per full.
						Note: can be 0 if craft has no full gundecks,
							and therefore is unable to attack forward or aft. 
		Gun Class	- Dice added as bonus damage to successful attacks with the craft's guns.
					Light	 - 2d10 Broad, 1d10 Chaser
					Moderate - 2d12 Broad, 1d12 Chaser
					Heavy 	 - 2d20 Broad, 1d20 Chaser
					Limited by Size Class.
						Small  - up to Light
						Medium - up to Moderate
						Large  - up to Heavy
					 	Huge   - up to Heavy
							Note: Huge craft get to roll 1 extra GC dice when hitting, 
								no matter their GC. (3 dice for broadside, 2 dice chaser)
		Gunnery Style	- For ships of Size Class Medium or larger only, all Small ships require only a single Gunnery Roll
					The Gunnery Roll on Small ships is always Acuity only.
				Manual or Automated. Dependent of whether or not automated system is installed.
					Automated	- Gunnery Roll is Acuity
					Manual		- Gunnery Roll is Acuity + Charm
						(Note: if their is insufficient auxillary crew for Manual Gunnery, PC's can only
							use half their Acuity, rounded down, as Potential for Attacks with the ship. 
							You recieve half the total bonus Potential from 
								Broadside or Chase Power, rounded down.
							You can only roll 1 dice for bonus damage from the ship's Gun Class.
							Bonus Damage dealt from 
								Gun Class is reduced to half the amount rolled, rounded down.)

	Other/Misc:
		
		Auxillary Crew
		Requirement	- Number of individuals required to man any manual rigging or gunnery on the ship.
					Differs by Sail Plan, Rigging Style, and Gunnery Style.
					Can be 0, requiring no additional crew.
					A ship's Berth should be increased to make room for auxillary crew by the addition of more
						Crew Spaces, as it is unlikely individuals can be convinced to join a ship with 
						insufficient Berth. Overly-stressed auxillary crew maybe prone to revolt.

		Accomodations	- Extra facilities a ship may contain beyond the basic necessities of operation.
					May include kitchens, medical facilities, armories, holding cells, workshops, etc.
		
		


